# Netflix_Content
Final Project for DSC540 Data Preparation

I found this final project for this term very interesting, and I believe I learned a lot in this class. I was able to build on my data analytical skills this term with python. I found most exciting to learn how to web scrape data, and how to read json by utilizing an API. This term I was able to find a dataset from Kaggle, which had Netflix content data. I was excited about this dataset because of all the exploratory analysis that could be done with this. For the website data analysis portion, I decided to go with the top grossing movies from 2018 presented by the boxofficemojo.com, and used Beautiful Soup to scrape the data. I was also excited to find the open movie database api service which I utilized to get the ratings of the movies. 

After cleaning up all the three data sources, I was able to merge all three sources by doing a outer join on the Title of the movie. Following the merging of the data, I was able to successfully create query to create the movies table using SQLLite and create a database that housed my data. Going forward I saw that I was able to read the sql data, and convert it to a dataframe for further analysis. Using python I create 5 visualizations to get better insight of the data acquired from the three sources. 

Some of notable insights I found was that the Netflix data showed to have more Movies then TV shows in their catalog. After utilizing the merged data I had in my movies database, I was able to link the title of the Movie from Netflix, and the IMBD rating from the API source, which showed that the movies where all over the board, and with the majority of the movies being around a rating of 5 to 7. Another insight that I was able to gather is that the website data had the distributor information, so I was interested in seeing which distributor had the most movies from there on Netflix with a release year of 2018, and looking at the graph I can see that Walt Disney Studios beat out the competition. I was curious to see the rating distribution of the 2018 movies in Netflix, which after doing the pie chart I saw that almost 38% of the content was rated TV-MA, and then followed by TV-14 around 15%. Following that I looked at the gross sales data I got from the website, and correlated that with the movies on Netflix, and looking at the graph I can see had the top grossing movies on Netflix came from Walt Disney Studios, and secondly followed by Sony Pictures. I also looked at the movie duration time, and saw that most movies were around 90-100 mins long. 

